The post artillery taking up the whole military
wall. As soon as the
commanders were in place, if there were any
individual unit announcements to be made, then
either the first sergeant or the commander would
make that announcement. And you all had fallen out
on military walk? Well, we lined up out there.
Facing Sebesa? No, we lined up facing west. Oh,
facing, oh, okay. We lined up facing west, and when
we were ready, when everything was ready, the
command, the regimental commander gave a
command. had to be relayed down the way and
everybody to the right place at the same time and
step off at the same time. We normally never had the
band with us. So we just marched and Sevesa fanned,
the entrance to Sevesa was fanned into three
entries and every unit had its place and after
about the third day every student had his place.
The normal setup was that the
food, well a table was of a size you could have four
There are four students on each side and one on each
end. Totally ten. Normally, there'd be
upperclassmen on one side and possibly the ends.
Opposite then would be four freshmen. It was the
freshmen. Now, the food was served in family style
and sizable. bowls and platters, and served by
student waiters. And it was all ready to go. Well,
it was there almost within moments after the
students came in and sat down. The job of the
freshman was to see that every upperclassman at
the table had his opportunity at whatever food
there was. And they took it all up, and the
president didn't get any, while the waiter was to
go get some more and bring that. All that was done
without any words or anything else. And it was, you
know, it worked very well. Was there slang for the
food then? Slang names? Oh, yeah. Share those with
us, please. Well, bread with gun lighting.
Let me think. Tea, coffee, tea, water, ketchup.
Well, let me back up a little bit in my way. What I was
about up to was the whole routine. Oh, okay. All
right. As soon as L had been in the mess hall and as
soon as there had been time for everyone to be
served, then on the PA system,
prior to that, there had been music of the day
recordings on the PA system. But after everyone
was in and ready and settled, then the PA
announcer would come on the battalion, the team's
hood, and he would read off whatever orders of the
day there were. And in that day and time, it was a big
deal to have a special delivery letter. And they
always had them to breakfast.
In fact, there's a guy named Graham Purcell, and
they're so-called, everyone, every day.
Everybody knew him by name, you know. And that
would be the bulk of it. I just, man, I can't
remember all the names for the clues, but I didn't
get them. All right, what was your? Of the food, you
recall, what were your favorites and your
unfavorites as to tastiness?
Well, to tell you the truth, I never had any trouble
with any of it. Okay. It was all well done. It was
well cooked, well served. The freshmen, the
freshmen had to see that the upperclassmen got all
they wanted. After that, the freshmen got what was
left, which is ordinarily in there. Every
place had two little quarter pounds of milk and a
glass of water and a glass of milk. And it was
generally
customary
that once the meal had been finished by the
upperclassmen or the freshmen could do what they
called a meal handing, which was to go and gather up
the milk or whatever it was that they wanted. At
breakfast that was all from the cereal, but the
cereal came in the little individual
package
boxes. At noon also The one big item that had its own
name was kush, as dessert, which ordinarily was a
pie, pies. For ten boys, there'd be three pies,
three pies on each table. And each pie was always
only cut One slice across one way and 90 degrees in
that was the other way. Always in four pieces.
Never any different. So there were 12 pieces for 10
people. Well, it was there on the table. That's
what I mean. But that way the upperclassmen could
get what they want. But until after Thanksgiving
or Thanksgiving year, Well, the freshmen never
did get any kush, except what was left over after
all the rest of them
had left. And, uh, the, uh,
anybody that didn't get enough to eat, well, you
could, after the upperclassmen were gone, well,
they could go and roam, and that was called meal
handling. Uh, kush, uh, Tell
me then from, let's start it after breakfast.
Describe a typical weekday, class day. Well. Got
up at what time? Reveille. Well, Reveille was at
6.15.
And the vehicle blew it up outside and So you knew
you had to get up and get your rims straightened up
and get your toes on. And those days, I don't think
any of us worried about shaving. And he was ready to
go out at 5 to 7 for formation. And we'd go, and after
the meal, In our case, we ate in Spiegel. So there
was time to go down to the post office where each of
us could order them. We had a box to share. And then
we could get back to our room. And if we had an 8
o'clock class, we'd go and get ready until it was 8
o'clock. or there was later, we'd go back to the
room and study or mock around or whatever we were
going to do. There never was any big deal of
pressure or pushing around
or anything like that. If some freshman had not
done something to some of the freshmen's favor,
The only time something would happen about that
would be the latter part of the morning or in the
afternoon or
in the evening. The mornings generally went
pretty much business like. Now you fell out into
formation for breakfast and for supper, is that
right? Oh and for lunch also.
Now, the same routine went on for breakfast and
lunch. But for dinner, we had the retreat
formation.
And generally, it consisted of to the color as the
flag was lowered. And we could hear the band across
the campus when we started playing. Now, normally
the band would be playing where? Well, I don't know
where they were before I got there, but all the time
I was there, the band played in the center area of
what at that time was known as the New Dome. The New
Dome, all right. I guess you'd say out front of the
Dome. Okay. And then when you all had core drills,
when were they held?
And about how often?
Well, there would be a, it was not unusual,
430, like, somewhere in there, for each outfit to
have their own grip. That would be when the
freshmen are lined up to how to fall in, how to. do
right and left face,
how to
march, what to do. And sometimes we'd just march
around until we hit them. And where would you all
normally do that? Military wall. Right close to
the gun. Core drill, as such,
Well, it was up to each, you know,
the chain of command set up for that. Because the
Corps commander, he ran the show, then there were
the Residential Commanders, then there were the
Battalion Commanders, then there were the Unit
Commanders. There never was anything except
everybody would fall out at x time and do less and so
on, unless it was like four or a year.
I really would differentiate between that time
and now. There was a lot less pressure on any
individual. But I never did that. We all knew that
we had a certain amount of hazing to do, whether it
was holding up the wall or push-ups or duck walking
or knee bends. You said that no board until after
Thanksgiving. What would a board be used for after
that? You've certainly heard of the use of a board
in hazing
to
the hazing process with the board. Who could use
the board? Well, of course, the seniors could do
whatever they wanted to. Juniors followed, and
then... Depending on the status of, by that I mean,
the behavior, the overall
well-being or well-acting of the freshman or the
sophomore, it was a stair-step,
you might say, permission and nobody was to get
hurt and so the
procedure was the cadet, if the board was going to
be applied, the word was grab a pooch and the boy
would grab his and at the same time flex the muscles
in his buttocks so that he really, after a little
bit, he got to where he is in pretty strong steel
back there. And as a result, after a little bit,
some of the more dashing freshmen would aggravate
the upperclassmen just so he'd try it again.
Because if the striking
person got out of a thin band right across the
center of the buttocks, why, he was called for a
shit leg. And the offended got to retaliate. And
that kind of kept things in focus. Tell me about,
and we're talking about before the war, because
I'll bet things were different after the war.
Before you left for the war, tell me about some of
the jokes, the pranks, the good bull that you knew
about.
Were there anything that you or others did that
would,
for fun, that were pranks, jokes, good bulls?
Well, I got two of them that I participated in. Let
me hold off on that one. Oh, okay. Have you heard
about the
authority of the upper class and senior class and
how they exercised it in 1940? No, tell me about it,
please. Well, in the month of December 1940,
The school was hit with a massive outbreak of the
flu. And they was over at the infirmary while they
had kids laying on the floor. It was all over the
place. And they told them to stay in your room and do
this. You know, it was really a terrible epidemic.
And so a week before ordinary times, leave for
Christmas, the senior class met and said, we're
going home.
And they released, they released school and
everybody went home a full week early. And that
kind of gives you an idea of the way that school was
run and the authority of the senior class. There
are also But a couple
things
happened.
My job was a janitor
in the library.
And it was in the book stacks back in the back. I
never got out on the front porch.
Parenthetically, one of the reasons I never did
smoke was because out in the reading area is why the
rack of the day was spitting old and dull dirt. And
that rarely got extinguished while we were there.
And I had all of that that I wanted, but I
Fortunately, I didn't have to put up with much of
it, but I never cared for any smoking ever in my
life. So they could smoke in the library. Yeah.
But the thing that attracted my attention on that
job in the library was in the stacks. Well, that's
where all the trash was put. And they had a couple of
real, several real models, one of which was a tow
sack. I'd always thought a toesight might be four
or five feet long. Here's some that were ten feet
long. Or more. And the next thing I noticed was that
the
library lighting had some bulbs that were about
the size of a basketball. And they had some others
that were maybe down to the size of a volleyball.
Well, they burned out and so the guys that were
working that part of the library took them out and
they put them in the trash and the trash came out in
my area. And I began to sort of dream about what
could happen to those over there next to the
houses. So I collected and collected and
collected. I had about three of those, two or three
full of those big bugs. And I got three of my
roommates and a couple
of other guys. And during the final exam in the
spring of 41, we went over to the library and
gathered up my tow sacks and took them back. And all
the way up to the fourth floor of Mitchell, And
there was a small trap door in the shower room, but
we managed to get up there and get all these sacks
through there. And, oh, about 1230 in the morning,
while we stated ourselves strategically around
the periphery of the roof, and then when we decided
time to go, we just lulled these They drove over the
side. They dropped four floors, boom, boom, boom,
boom, boom, boom, you know, and just kept it up. And
then every two of them came from the same place, and
the old business, you know, hollering, yelling,
cut it out, cut it out. They were screaming bloody
murder down below, and they didn't know anything
about it. Did you get caught? About who it was? No.
We just kept going until we ran out of bugs and of
course about the time there were several, several
of them tried to send me up the scale of the wall and
you know that you can cure that by just landing on
close by. So we kept that up and it I guess we carried
that on for 30, 45 minutes. It was something else.
We waited over an hour and quietly went down one at a
time. Now, and you and the other bombers were all
freshmen?
Yeah. And then another one was the... In
the mess hall, of course, we got these little
individual cereal boxes. And this sort of a game to
collect them up. Food was hard to come by in the
dorms. We, of course, were only about 75 feet from
Casey's, a confectioner there. in the bottom of
the YMCA there. It was hardly an eating place.
You'd get a milkshake or a lot of milk there, but
that's not all. Anyway, we collected these boxes.
And we had a good bunch of them, and it got to be warm
weather, and ground out time became, you know, And
my good friend from Fort Worth, he lived directly
below, and he had a roommate from Dallas. Well,
over time, we had washed our socks in the lavatory
in our room, and the water pipe wasn't sealed at the
floor as a lot of them are in those times. And if we
slopped a little water over it, run down the pipe
and there was a joint just, I don't know, let the
water run down that pipe and splatter. It would
get all over their room and so forth. And they
didn't really appreciate it. We weren't really
trying to be Well, they got kind of contentious
after a while. So, my friend from Fort Worth, he'd
stick his head out in
the, in the uh, in the uh, in the uh, in the uh, in the
uh, in the uh, in the uh, in the uh, in the uh, in the
uh, in the uh, in the uh, in the uh, by any time
anything like that happened while we were all
dried up. But finally we decided maybe it would be a
good idea to get rid of all that cereal. So we took
two wastebaskets and went into the shower and
filling up with water. It happened that the water
wasn't exactly cold.
We got a hold of some of the warm water. But anyway,
we filled up these two place passes. And so we went
down and after they'd gone to sleep down below us,
well, we went down and went in and took the going out
boat. very politely lifted on the dressing. We
took the doorknob off and that's it. And then we
simultaneously, one bucket full on the upper bunk
and one bucket full on the lower bunk, slammed the
door and took off. And we had to go down to the second
floor and up to the fourth one, which we did. Well,
we They came up, came in our room and felt the bottom
of our feet to see if there was any dirt on them. And
we didn't find any. So we went away, drunk
and mad. the principal character in that thing. He
didn't find it out until I made a mistake telling it
at a reunion about five years ago. Now, and the
victim was a sophomore? No, he was a freshman too.
Oh, a freshman also. Oh, okay. So you play, it was a
good bull of one fish on another fish. Yeah.
Let's see. Tell me about some of the special...
teachers, advisors, who were some of the folks in
your A&M years that really were special to you?
Well, number one has to be Dr. J.G.H. Thompson. Did
he have a nickname? Alphabet.
He later was considered to be the father of the F-16
aircraft because of the designers and
the principal, people who developed the F-16, all
their students. And one of them, my good friend and
classmate, Terrence Hart, who was in charge of
that whole
thing. Adrian Breeland was in the military. He was
a wonderful guy and coached
artillery. Math, English, history?
Well, in the curricula at that time, those were all
sort of odd items to us. Frankly, I didn't find any
stellar
documentation on him. Who was the Dean of
Engineering? Ed Gilchrist. He was great. He was a
really wonderful man. When it came time to call us
to war, he did his best to give us time to get a degree
before we were called in. What were the normal
either written or assumed rules about class and
attendance and conduct in class?
Well,
attendance, you were allowed What
role
did the YMCA play then in student life? the
organization and or the building? Well the
organization,
I can't give them credit for anything. Because
there wasn't MSC then so. But the biggest thing is
it provided the location for the